ThreadNum: 567433
Subject: Re: Is this a Computable or Uncomputable Function?
To: Fidika@new.rr.com (Paul Fidika)
From: Doctor Jacques
TimeStamp: 08/19/2004 at 02:59:05
Sent: yes


As Paul Fidika wrote to Dr. Math
On 08/19/2004 at 01:50:52 (Eastern Time),
>Thank you for your reply! I just have one last question: is there 
>any sort of (formal) definition that you know of which distinguishes 
>definitions of functions such as your:
>
>"f(n) = 1 if the decimal expansion of pi contains a string of at 
>least n consecutive "4" digits, and 0 otherwise.",
>
>which specifies a unique function but does not say precisely what it 
>is (leaving it up to the reader to determine), from more "concrete" 
>function definitions such as the usual definitions for tan, exp(x), 
>a look-up table, or f(x) = x?

Hi again Paul,

I don't know of any formal definition for the kind of function that 
you are considering.

In fact, this is probably not a well-defined mathematical concept. A 
function is a set of pairs (x,f(x)) where every x in the domain 
appears in exactly one pair; nothing is said about the possibility to 
obtain f(x) from x.

Even worse, if we consider functions over a given infinite domain, 
the set of those functions is uncountable. If we assume that the 
definition of a function can be expressed as a finite string over a 
fixed finite alphabet, we see that the set of possible definitions is 
countable. The conclusion is that there are functions that cannot 
even be defined.

For the functions that can be defined, there are lots of possible 
types of definitions (some apply only to certain particular domains), 
for example:

* A "standard name" like exp, cos, ... This is not a definition, just
  a mnemonic. The definition must be given separately, by other means
  like those below.

* A geometric construction - this is a typical way of defining
  trigonometric functions.

* An equation, like those for rational functions.

* A convergent series.

* A differential equation.

* An algorithm to compute the function.

* The cardinality of a set of objects, like combinatorial functions.

* A statement like the one I gave you - in fact, this would have to
  be expressed in a more formal way, but the definition is
  unambiguous.

There are also lots of other ways to define functions (and, as I 
said, most functions cannot even be defined). There may also be 
different ways to define the same function. It can also happen that a 
function is defined in a "non-constructive" way, and that we find 
later a more effective definition. For example, for the function I 
gave you, it is conceivable (although unlikely) that somebody would 
find the length of the longest string of "4" in pi by some elaborate 
argument. We would then know that f is the same function as u_t for 
some t. Note that the function has not changed, we have merely found 
another interpretation of it. This means that the kind of definition 
used is not an intrinsic attribute of the function.

In fact, this is what happens all the time when we solve a problem 
asking for a function. Consider a typical problem, like "How many 
subsets are there in a set of n elements ?". The statement of the 
problem actually defines a function f(n) - the number of subsets 
(assuming that we can prove that this only depends on n, not on the 
set in question). The solution of the problem consists in finding 
another definition of the same function, using a more "classical" 
type of definition. In this case, we can prove that f(n) is the same 
function as 2^n - we did not find another function, we merely found 
another definition for the same function.

The distinction you are considering would then be related to the 
concept of solved (not solvable) problem; I believe this is 
unsuitable as the basis of a mathematical definition.

Please feel free to write back if you want to discuss this further.

- Doctor Jacques, The Math Forum
  <http://mathforum.org/dr.math/>

