ThreadNum: 567517
Subject: Re: I Honestly Have No Clue
To: number1pepsichick@myway.com (Tryna)
From: Doctor Ian
TimeStamp: 08/25/2004 at 11:35:12
Sent: yes


Hi Tryna, 

>Thanks! I'm Going to get in touch with the people who make my math 
>book. 

Excellent.  If you tell them you're working ahead on your own, they
might even give you a break on the price if you ask nicely.  They make
their money selling the books to schools, so they don't really need to
make a lot from you.  

>I don't really like those sites, 

Yeah, the problems are pretty hard.  The thing about competitions is
that there are so many potential competitors, they have to make the
problems hard just to avoid being swamped by entries. 

>but your problems are o.k. 

Well, in addition to the ones we put up each week or two, you can also
go back and look at all the old ones from over the years.  In fact, a
way to learn a _ton_ of math would be to print out the problems, try
to solve them yourself, and then compare your solution with the ones
submitted by other students.  

That's valuable, because it's really rare to come across a problem
that can't be solved in a lot of different ways, and learning to be
flexible about how you approach problems will be crucial if you think
you'd like to get into competitions later on. 

>I 
>was wondering if you know how i can make a website for competition 
>within my own level, 

Well, the first thing you have to do is find someone to host your
pages!  These days, most Internet Service Providers will give you some
space (10-100 megabytes) that you can use to put up your own web pages. 

Once you've got that, you need to learn how to use HTML to write web
pages, or you can use something like Microsoft Word and have it save
what you write in web-ready format.  Once you can get pages up and
looking like you want, you're ready for the hard part: deciding _what_
to put on your pages. :^l

To run a competition, you'd need to find problems for people to solve,
and give them some way to send you their solutions.  The easiest way
to do that would be to just put up descriptions of the problems in
HTML, and then ask them to email you with their solutions.  

The thing is, if people are going to send you solutions, they're going
to want you to put some effort in, too.  At the very least, you'd want
to write back to people to let them know their solutions were
received.  You might want to post the best solutions on your site, and
perhaps include the names of everyone who submitted correct solutions.
 If you put up problems every week or month, you might want to have a
page with 'standings', i.e., which people have submitted how many
correct solutions. 

To get people to keep coming back, you'd probably want to have some
kind of prize.  On the other hand, we get lots of people coming to our
Problems of the Week, even though we don't give prizes.  For some
people, just having their names listed on a web site is enough of a
prize. 

I hope this helps!

- Doctor Ian, The Math Forum
  <http://mathforum.org/dr.math/>

