ThreadNum: 567740
Subject: Re: Exponential function
To: LHanawalt@yahoo.com (Larry)
From: Doctor Roy
TimeStamp: 08/19/2004 at 17:47:50
Sent: yes

Hi,

>I would be grateful if you would read the following and tell me if
there is 
>anything wrong with the math, on its own terms, without reference to the 
>physical implications.  

There is something wrong with the math, because there isn't any. You
present some ideas. However, you present no hard evidence (other than
popular science knowledge mixed with what seems to be pretty close to
quackery) to back your claims and do not have any experiments which
can back them, either. Physicists use actual math, not just fuzzy
ideas. They also back their theories by correctly predicting the
outcome of experiments. You do not do so here. 

In other words, unless you can show how your theories match
observations made in the real world and how they can predict the
outcome of experiments, they are nothing more than fanciful ideas. 

You also seem to be mixing math with physics. Pure mathematics stands
on its own. It is not affected by the real world. The real world is
_modeled_ by mathematics. It is not determined by mathematics. In
other words, our model could be incorrect. If so, our mathematical
model is wrong. However, this doesn't change mathematics at all (as it
was the application of mathematics that was incorrect, not the
underlying mathematics).

> "Gravity" is instantaneous, a constant rate of acceleration, and 
> hence "timeless".

The speed of gravity is constant (so, yes, it accelerates at a
constant rate, which is zero). An experiment performed in the last
year showed that gravity travels at the speed of light.

>In space-timeless, light accelerates at a constant rate.  Hubble's 
>constant measuring the rate of expansion in space-time is consistent 
> with the constant acceleration of light in space-timeless.  

Light doesn't accelerate. Or it accelerates at 0 m/s/s. In other
words, it's speed is constant (acceleration zero). How are the two
"consistent"? Please back your statements with actual fact. From the
earth, other galaxies appear to be travelling away anywhere from 15
km/s to 55 km/s. Those are relatively slow speeds. Hubble's constant
is nowhere near the speed of light. So again, how are the two consistent?

> (It's value, when calculated as a constant rate of acceleration, is 
> approximately Euler's e.)

Under which metric? The speed of light is nearly 300 million meters
per second. Numerology is not popular with scientists. Euler's e is
2.71828.... The speed of light is not quite 300 million meters per
second. Euler's e has no units. How can they be "approximately" equal?

> Any mathematician, mystic, composer, or person who has 
>experienced being conscious will recognize the reality of the fifth, 
>dimensionless dimension.  

I qualify as at least 3 of those, and I don't recognize any fifth,
dimensionless dimension.

> It is actually the "domain" in which Einstein performed his 
> mental/visual experiments.  It is the domain in which you are 
>"processing" this communication.

How are you defining dimension? A dimension is a dimension. By
definition, it is not dimensionless. A dimensionless dimension is a
contradiction in terms.

The 3 physical dimensions (the 3 common ones of more than 20 physics
dimensions) are measurable dimensions. Blind mysticism has no basis in
science or math.

>The 5-D model predicts that energy increasing constantly at the rate 
> of "e" will be available at that frequency--allowing the generation 
> of free, clean electricity or optical energy.
>

Predicts how? You haven't actually presented any theory backed by any
sort of math or any predictive experiments backing the non-existent
theory.

>(This is actually true at every point in space-time, but 2.71828 
> Kelvin is a good place to look first.  

The actual value of the cosmic background radiation is roughly 2.76K,
with some local variations. It's not 2.71828. However, given some
hundreds of millions of more years, it will get there.

> In space-timeless, Moore's Law is, was and ever shall be. 

Moore's law is itself only an approximation. At the very beginning of
the computer age, processor speeds doubled every 12 months. After
about 10 years, the rate at which they doubled slowed to every 18
months. It's a human approximation and can break at any time. Further,
Moore's law is NOT an inherent part of the universe. 

> The history 
>of human technological progress bears this out.

Actually, it doesn't, as I've shown above. Moore's law changed just 10
years after it's inception. It continues to change.

>In space timeless, the energy for both directions of time's arrow is
the energy 
>of black body radiation constantly increasing at the rate of e.

What units? A dimensionless number means next to nothing in physics.

Vague statements backed by no proof are never going to be accepted
anywhere. Science has advanced this far simply because people were
careful about solidly proving any of their assertions. Unless you can
do the same, and move beyond vague, confusing statements to concrete
sentences backed by facts, no one will take your work seriously.

- Doctor Roy, The Math Forum
  <http://mathforum.org/dr.math/>

