ThreadNum: 568039
Subject: Re: An Irrigation problem
To: bloom@pixigirl.nu (Elisa)
From: Doctor Rick
TimeStamp: 08/22/2004 at 21:30:36
Sent: yes

Hi, Elisa.

As Elisa wrote to Dr. Math
On 08/21/2004 at 23:41:57 (Eastern Time),
>I'm sorry I'm still a bit confused on how to work the problem.  
>Please have patience for me. For the first part of the problem, how 
>would a calculate the overlap of circles and how would I know if I 
>reach the maximum uniform coverage?  And for the second part what do 
>you mean by the volume of one inch.  

The second question first: When we speak of a rainfall of 1 inch, we 
mean that if the water didn't soak in, you'd end up with a pool of 
water 1 inch deep. If the sprinklers drop 1 inch of water on the 
field, you end up with a pool of water 1 inch deep, 1000 feet wide 
and 2000 feet long. The volume of that pool is the total amount of 
water dropped in one pass of the pipe across the field.

On the first question, I assume this is a significant project and not 
a simple homework problem, because as I said, it looks like a good 
bit of thinking and work to me. I don't have a clear idea in mind, 
and I don't want to duplicate the work you are to do. What I would do 
to start with is to suppose that the heads are spaced some distance d 
apart, and figure out how to compute the amount of water dropped on 
one spot (x,y) in the field in one pass. If the x coordinate is along 
the pipe and the y coordinate is perpendicular to the pipe, the 
amount of water will be a function of x only. Then I'd want to study 
the amount of water dropped, f(x), and how this function changes with 
the distance d. Consider how you want to define uniformity in terms 
of properties of the function f(x), then find what value of d makes f
(x) the most uniform.

Those are just my first thoughts about a plan of action, without 
actually doing the work. You must proceed from here; you may need to 
change the plan as you see how things turn out, but at least it's a 
way to get started.

- Doctor Rick, The Math Forum
  <http://mathforum.org/dr.math/>

